---
layout: post
title: "Resume"
category: personal
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


# Akshata Shabbhag

 * akshatashan (at) gmail (dot) com
 * <https://github.com/akshatashan>
 * <https://bitbucket.com/leapingwolf>

## Background

I am a Senior Software Engineer with over 8 years of experience. I have worked with Fortune 500 companies, US government, startups, and non-profits. I am well versed in multiple technologies like .Net, Android, Elixir/Phoenix frameworks and relational databases. I am also proficient in Amazon cloud offerings like AWS, EC2, S3 and RDS. Currently, i am working on my personal project (Pass-It-On) that aims to promote recycling amongst citizens.

All in all, I am a seasoned professional with a proven track record, who is passionate about learning new things. 


## Education

Bachelor of Engineering (*BioMedical Engineering 2001 - 2005*)                           
Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belgaum, India

## Systems Proficiency

* Programming Languages: Elixir, Kotlin, C#, SQL. 

* Frameworks: Android SDK, SQLite, Phoenix Framework, Amazon Web Services, Amazon EC2, Amazon RDS, Amazon S3, Secure Authentication, Facebook API, Google Maps API, Mail Server, JSON, JWT, Fault Tolerant Systems, RESTful WebServices, Git, Sublime Text, IntelliJ IDEA, Android Studio, Gradle, Vagrant, .Net framework, Microsoft SQL Server, Nginx  

* RDBMS/ Databases: Postgresql, SQLite, MS SQL Server 

* Web Technologies: Phoenix Framework, nginx, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3.

* API’s: RESTful API concepts.

* Tools/Others: Intellij Idea, Sublime Text, Android Studio, PGAdmin3, Git, Gradle, Mix, Charles, Postman

* Operating systems: OS X, Linux, Microsoft Windows family 

* Design Patterns: Delegate, Adapter, Event Aggregator, MVVM, MVC, Singleton, Observer, Builder, Factory method, Strategy, Business Delegates.


## Experience
**Pass-It-On** (*Personal Project*)                           
*(Full-Stack developer - January 2016 to Current)*

The Project consists of 2 parts: 
Pass It On is an android app making its way soon to the Play store. It lets citizens share stuff among themselves and use resources effectively. The app is coded in Kotlin and targets android devices with Api level 15 and above.

Aerialroots is the RESTful API server built on the Erlang platform using Elixir language. It serves requests from Android App "Pass It On". The project aims at reducing urban waste and encourage people to share stuff with fellow citizens.
[BitBucket Repo](https://bitbucket.org/leapingwolf)

**Twisper Travel, GmbH**                           
*(Product Manager - February 2013 - April 2013)*

I worked for Twisper as a Product Manager and was involved mostly in architectural decisions of the project.I managed an offshore team of 4 developers conducting and reviewing sprints and its progress. I mostly worked on translating business requirements to technical specifications, tracking issues and bug fixes and helping make decisions for the future of the product.The challenging part of my job was to be a scrum master of a team working remotely. 

**Advanced Technologies Solutions, West Des Moines, IA**                           
*(Senior Systems Engineer - November 2010 to October 2012)*

I worked as a Senior .Net Developer for products used by the Department of Corrections.
My role was to develop new and improved features for the  Case Management system. The challenging part of my job was to understand the way the facility of Corrections work and the complex calculations and algorithms so essential for its proper functioning.Apart from working mostly on technology, I have been actively involved in the business requirement gathering stages of new and existing features. Our recent project was to build an Offender attendance system for handheld devices to be used by Correction officers.


**Cognizant Technology Solutions, Des Moines, IA**                           
*(Associate, Projects - July 2005 to Oct. 2011)*

Worked on multiple enterprise .Net applications interacting with clients spanning across time zones and continents. Designed, developed and implemented enhancements to mission-critical applications for businesses in retail domain. Designed and implemented a mission critical project resulting significant profit to the business. Worked on a crucial legacy migration project with a major role in backend design and development. Provided production support and data fixes in a timely manner mainly to warehouse and call center applications thereby minimizing downtime. Developed and supported Unix shell scripts for backend processing.



 
